[cicadas buzzing]
[Tomoya] Nice weather, huh?
[Nagisa] Yeah!
Seems like a waste
to go to class.
Why don't we skip and
go to the beach?
Give it up already, Okazaki.
You say that every day!
Of course, cause these
supplementary classes
are a waste of time.
If I'm not going to college,
then there's no point.
It doesn't matter.
You made a commitment,
so you have to honor it.
Besides, it still goes
on your school record.
[sigh] You sure like to worry
about me, don't you?
Well, what do you expect?
I mean, because you're, um...
you're very special to me,
Okazaki.
[Tomoya] [gulps nervously]
Hey, Nagisa!
Uh huh, yeah?!
You, um, wanna hold hands?
[Nagisa] Uh! Huh?
Just try it.
I-I don't know.
I mean, we're in public.
What if someone sees us?
There's nobody around.
Don't worry about it.
[motorcycle engine]
Besides, we're going out,
aren't we?
What's wrong with holding hands
once in a while?
[motorcycle engine]
I-I guess you have a point.
No harm in trying.
Good morning!
[motorcycle engine]
Coming through!
Lovey-dovey first thing
in the morning.
Wait, don't tell me you were
about to kiss before I
interrupted?
Come on, don't be stupid!
Of course not!
Yeah, what he said.
We haven't started kissing yet.
We were just trying to hold-
(umph!)
[Tomoya] Hey, shut up!
[giggles]
[Tomoya]
The school festival is over,
we're finished with exams,
and summer vacation
is finally here.
Still, not much has changed and
I'm still freeloading at
Nagisa's house.
Thus, the price of rice rose
steadily, and in Toyama...
[Tomoya] Even though
it's summer vacation,
[teacher continues lecturing]
seniors like me still have
supplementary classes.
But I'm toughing it out for
Nagisa's sake at least.
[Teacher] Are there any
questions before I move on?
[Kyou] Every day, nothing but
study, study, study.
I'm so sick of all this.
It's the last summer vacation
of our lives
and we're stuck indoors
reading books all day.
You might think it's boring,
but I'm actually happy to be
studying with everyone for once.
And on the bright side,
we still get to eat lunch
together every day, right?
That reminds me...
What the heck are you doing
lurking around here?
As Student Council President,
I'm required to come to school.
I know that! I'm asking
why you're hanging out
with us every day
when you're not even
in the Drama Club!
Where's Okazaki?
I haven't seen him.
(oh?)
Oh, I forgot to tell you.
Okazaki said he was going
over to Sunohara's.
[Tomoyo] (uh...)
Uh, is something wrong?
I just noticed that you
still call him Okazaki.
Yes, is something
wrong with that?
I wouldn't say it's "wrong",
but since Tomoya calls you
Nagisa, it does seem a bit odd.
If you two are going out,
then shouldn't you be
on a first name basis?
Oh, now that you mention it, I
seem to remember someone telling
me the same thing before.
So, let's hear it. How far
have you two gone anyway?
Huh?!
Well, actually...
[Youhei] What? You haven't
even held hands yet?!
What are you, in grade school?
Next you're gonna tell me
you're afraid she's gonna
give you cooties!
[Tomoya] Shut up.
When the moment comes,
it can be really nerve-wracking.
Ah, I can't believe Nagisa's
wasting her time who
won't even hold her hand.
She should get with me, so I can
teach her the true meaning of
love. [knock on door]
Sunohara, you have a visitor.
[Youhei] Huh? Me?
Yeah, and she's really cute too.
She can't wait to see you.
WHAT?! FOR REAL?!
YAHAA!!!
(sighs)
Sorry to keep you waitin', Baby!
Youhei, hi!
[Youhei] (urk...)
Mei, it's you.
It's been a while, huh, Okazaki?
Nice to see you!
I called and told you I was
coming over today, didn't I?
Why are you surprised?
[Youhei] Sorry, I forgot.
Ah, you're hopeless, Youhei.
Give me a break.
When we're finished
cleaning up in here,
why don't we go say hi
to Nagisa's mom and dad?
[Mei] Okay!
[ALL] Thanks for the food!
(giggle) You're always so polite
and well-mannered, Mei.
It's a pleasure to have you.
When you put it that way,
it's hard to believe she's
Sunohara's sister.
You shouldn't say
things like that.
I think Sunohara is a
very nice person.
Mei, if you're looking for a
place to stay, I hope you
know you're welcome here.
Oh, really? You don't mind?
Of course not!
It's our pleasure!
[all laugh]
We should all take
a bath after this.
[Tomoya] This family sure loves
company, don't they?
[Sanae] Oh, count me in too!
[Akio] Hmm...
[Nagisa] It's a bit crowded in
here. I hope you don't mind.
Seem to be enjoying themselves.
[Mei] No, of course not,
If I ask, do you think they'll
let me join in maybe?
[Mei] that just means I have an
excuse to snuggle up together.
[Mei] Oh, good morning, Okazaki!
Now everyone's up.
Morning, Okazaki. (yawns)
Morning, you two!
Didn't get much sleep?
Not really, since we were up
all night talking in bed.
You were the big topic
of discussion, by the way.
[TOMOYA] Am I that interesting?
Hey, Nagisa, why don't you
go back to sleep for
a little while?
Nah, I'll be fine
once I get going.
Besides, my classes are over,
so I'm off from school.
So, you're on vacation and
you spend it working?
You don't have to
put it that way.
I just wanted to let Mom and Dad
take some time off for a change.
I don't think of it as work.
I'm happy to help!
I know this probably isn't your
idea of a vacation,
but maybe we can do something
tomorrow instead.
(ungh)
Just think of this as
a way to pay your rent.
Yeah? And what are you gonna do?
My lovely daughter was kind
enough to give me this time off,
so...
I'M GONNA PLAY!!
So long. (maniacal laughter)
Isn't it wonderful that he's
still a child at heart
after all these years?
(giggles)
Sorry to keep you waiting.
I was busy baking these.
Wow, that must be your
special recipe, huh?
Yes! If you'd like to try some,
help yourself.
[Mei] Yay!
Ah... (grinding chomp)
How do you like it?
[Mei] It's cute!
I realy like the rainbow colors.
I'm happy to hear it.
[Tomoya]
"Cute," she says. Very clever.
[Sanae] Still, I wonder if we'll
sell out today?
[Nagisa]
I'll have to use that next time.
[Mei] Oh, I'm sure we will.
Sorry to leave so soon,
but I have a neighborhood
board meeting to attend.
The shop's in your hands,
so good luck.
See you later, Mom.
(Mei giggles)
[LOUDSPEAKER] Please listen to
the following announcement.
Today, we are collecting
electroinc recyclables from all
houses in this neighborhood.
If you have any such items that
you are not using,
such as television sets,
refrigerators, computers...
Sure is slow.
You guys had a lot more
customers the last time
I came to visit.
A lot of students come here for
lunch during the school year,
but things slow down
on summer break.
(door opens)
Ah, hello...
Hi, welcome to the store.
Here, take one!
[Tomoya] Damn, she's fast.
[WOMAN]
Thank you. Oh, look at that.
Such cute girls are
watching the shop today.
[Mei] I know!
Nagisa's adorable, isn't she?
Actually, I think she's
talking about you.
Oh, no.
I think both of you are cute.
(giggle) Thank you!
That's nice of you to say.
Thank you, please come again!
You weren't helpful at all,
Okazaki.
You need to step up
your game plan.
It would have been overkill
with all three of us.
Any way you look at it,
I'm the third wheel.
That's not true at all!
Don't say that!
Even if you're not much help,
I'm still happy to be
working with you.
[Mei] Don't worry, Okazaki.
You just take care
of the register
while I go outside and
find some new customers.
Find customers?!
Wait, Mei!
[Mei & Tomoya]
Welcome to the store!
Oh my, that's odd. Akio and
Sanae aren't here today?
No, we're watching over
the shop for today.
(door opens)
Wait a sec, this place
is a bake shop?
That's right, come on in!
I see. That's not quite what
I expected, I guess.
I knew it was some kind of shop,
but I wasn't thinking "bakery."
Their bread is really good.
You should try some.
Okay, since I'm here, I guess
I might as well buy something.
(door opening)
Welcome to the store!
Wait a sec, this place
is a bake shop?
See, didn't I tell you?
But hey, look, the girl
inside really is cute.
(ah) Wait, what's going on here?
(door opening)
(grrr...)
Watch the register!
There she is! Mei!
Yes?
(panting) Hey! What the heck
are you telling these people?!
"A cute girl works here!"
Yeah, but people aren't coming
there for the bread!
But as long as they come,
it doesn't matter, right?
(snickers)
(ugh...)
[Nagisa]
Okazaki! It's getting busy.
Can you come and help me?
B-be right there!
There's a cute girl in there.
Don't you want to
go check it out?
[boys grumbling and arguing]
[AKIO]
Holy crap, we haven't sold this
much since our grand opening.
And that was years ago!
Then try working for a change.
[Mei] Some of the customers even
came back two or three times.
In case you were wondering,
Sanae's bread sold out too.
That's the biggest
surprise of all.
Akio dear, when you put it like
that, you make it sound like my
bread never sells.
Sanae, I love you!
Although I don't know what that
has to do with selling bread,
I love you too, Akio!
Isn't there something you
wanna say, Okazaki?
Like what?
"Nagisa, I love you!"
[Tomoya] (urk!)
[Nagisa] Huh?!
I-I can't say that out loud!
Geez!
I-I'm gonna start cooking
dinner, okay?
I'm gonna sweep the front
of the store.
(disappointed sigh)
[Youhei] Go figure.
Today's she's having fun
with Nagisa again.
(gulping)
What's that girl thinking,
ignoring her brother like this?
Quit sulking.
It's getting on my nerves.
I'm sure she'll stop by
eventually.
[Youhei]
I wonder about that...
[single knock on door]
[Mei] Hello!
See that? There she is now.
Well, if she insists,
I guess I'll humor her.
Sure is predictable, isn't he?
I had a feeling I could
find you here.
You came to see me?
[Mei] Uh huh!
Youhei, I need to talk to
Okazaki in private for a sec.
You think you could
wait outside?
[Youhei] (urk...)
[Mei] Come on, hurry up!
You're in the way!
[SUNOHARA] (struggling)
(wailing and sobbing)
What's he crying about?
Well, whatever.
I know this is kind of sudden,
but I think it's time for me
to step in and play Cupid.
[TOMOYA] Play Cupid?
Yep!
I see, so you were worried
after all, huh?
I'm glad to hear it.
[Mei]
Yeah, of course I'm worried.
But there's no one really
special at the moment.
[Mei]
What are you talking about?
She's right in front of you.
WHAT?!
[Tomoya] Sunohara and Mei?!
But that's incest!
[Mei] Hey, Youhei...
Yeah, what is it, Mei?
Ever since you moved away,
I've had these thoughts about
you that I can't get
out of my head.
Huh? What kind of thoughts?
Thoughts I've never had before.
Ones that didn't cross my mind
when we were together.
You mean you have a little more
respect for me now.
No, it's not that.
It's something...
more naughty.
Mei?
You naughty girl.
Oh, Youhei, hold me.
[sound effect] Ooohhh...
Man, that's getting me
worked up! (cat meows)
Will you get your mind out of
the gutter for a second?
Come on, it's you and Sunohara.
What do you expect?
Please don't involve me in your
perverse incest fantasies.
Besides, I said I'm playing
Cupid, not that I'm in love
with someone!
Hold on a second! You mean
you're talking about me?!
[Mei] Yes!
[Tomoya] Hey, Sunohara...
What is it, Okazaki?
Latley, I've had these thoughts
about you that I just can't
get out of my head.
Huh? What kind of thoughts?
Thoughts I've never had before.
Ones that I don't think
about other guys.
Are you saying you're proud to
call me your friend now?
No, it's something a
little different.
I mean...
I wanna run to school
with you...
wearing matching boxer shorts
and not much else.
Tomoya...
[Tomoya] Hurry up and catch me!
I'm right here!
[Youhei] Stop teasing me!
It's not fair!
[Tomoya] (laughs)
Come and get me!
[Youhei] Here I come!
[sound effect] Aaahhh...
Oh man, what's wrong with me?
[cat meows]
So, can I continue now or what?
Sorry, I think Akio's been
rubbing off on me lately.
What I've been trying to say
is that I'm worried about
you and Nagisa.
Huh?
To be blunt, I don't think
you two have been open
with each other.
You guys have been serious about
each other for weeks,
and you're still acting
like this?
I can't believe I'm being
lectured about romance by a
middle schooler.
Here's a question for you.
If you could change one thing
about Nagisa, what would it be?
[Tomoya] What would I change?
Let me see...
Well, she tends to be critical
of herself a lot,
so I guess, if it was my choice,
I'd like her to have more
confidence.
That's exactly what I was
thinking too!
This is great!
My plan my work after all!
Plan? What plan?
[knock on door]
Excuse me, Okazaki...
Wow, speaking of the devil,
there she is now!
What a coincidence!
[Tomoya] Coincidence, huh?
[Mei] Well, looks like I'm in
the way. I guess I'll be going.
Wait a sec, I thought you two
were supposed to be
hanging out today.
Huh? Oh, uh...
Oh, yeah, I guess
I forgot about that.
[Tomoya] (sighs)
Uh, hey, Tomoya...
Ah! I'm Tomoya now?
[Nagisa]
Tomoya, are you busy right now?
No, I'm totally free.
Oh, that's good.
Then, whaddya say the two of us
go for a little walk?
[Tomoya]
What's with you all of a sudden?
I... I just thought it'd be nice
to take a walk. That's all.
It's not a problem, is it?
No problem at all.
You know...
you're... really lucky, Tomoya!
Why's that?
B-because you get to
go on a walk
with a sort of cute
girl like me.
[Tomoya] (whhhaaa?!)
I... I, um, I said cute,
but just sort of cute.
[Tomoya] Sure, whatever.
But where are we going?
Oh, that's right. I guess we...
should go back home.
[Tomoya] (waaahhh!)
[Tomoya]
Already?! But we just left!
But if we don't go back,
then the plan won't work.
What plan?
Oh no, it's nothing, never mind.
Good afternoon.
Welcome!
Oh, it's just you.
Why would you say
"good afternoon" like that
in your own house?
Because I'm a customer right
now. I came to buy bread!
You don't have to buy it,
just take it for free.
It's not like we're
gonna sell out.
That's no good at all!
It's cheating.
I'll pay like anyone else does.
Okay, okay, fine.
I know you can be pretty
stubborn sometimes.
Do whatever you want.
But...
watch out for land mines.
Land mines? Whaddya mean?
You tell her, kid.
You know what I'm saying.
Actually, I don't.
[Akio] (waaahh?!)
You liar!
You just don't wanna say it!
Yeah...
[Akio] (grrr)
Little coward!
All right then, I'll just have
to tell her myself.
By land mine,
what I'm talking about...
is...
Sanae's bread!
[Sanae] (sniffles)
[Akio] Huh?!
Are you saying my bread is...
nothing but a death trap!
No, wait! I love it! Sanae!
So, now what?
Well, even if no one's here,
I'd still like to leave some
money for them.
Um...
Would you mind paying
for me, Tomoya?
What's wrong?
You don't have any cash?
[Nagisa] I do...
but I'd like you to pay
if that's all right.
Um, do you mind?
Nope, don't mind at all.
How much?
It's 120 yen.
Here!
Perfect, thank you very much.
Oh, how nice of you
to treat me, Tomoya!
What are you talking about?
You MADE me pay.
[Nagisa]
But it's okay, because I know
you won't be upset about it.
And why's that?
[Nagisa] Well...
Because it's for me, right?
Huh? Hold on a second.
You mind repeating that for me?
I can, but I really
don't want to.
No, I really didn't
understand you.
Oh, I see. Well, in that case,
I guess I have no choice
but to say it again.
(deep breath)
Listen closely this time.
[Tomoya] Okay.
What I said was,
I know you won't be upset
because you're buying
the bread for me!
I said it pretty loud.
You heard me that time, right?
Uh, yeah, I heard you.
[Nagisa] Good, I was afraid
I'd have to say it louder.
So is it good?
I'm so nervous right now,
I can't eveb taste it.
What's there to be
nervous about?
Oh, I forgot to say my line!
Let's see... Since you bought it
for me, it's, uh, even more
delicious than usual.
Well, I'm glad to hear it.
You're supposed to ask
for a bite, Tomoya.
It doesn't really work when
you tell me what I want.
Okay, then I'll try to make
it like a question.
Tomoya, would you like
to have a bite?
Not really.
You're really making this
tough on me.
So I supposed to say,  yes ?
I get it.
Would you like to have a bite?
Yeah, I REALLY wanna bite!
Really? For real?!
Sorry, but you can't have any!
[TOMOYA] (d'oh!)
Oh, are you okay, Tomoya?!
What's wrong?
Why can't I have any?
Because... because I don't
have enough to share.
Fine, then just forget about it.
That won't do at all!
We'll just have to come up with
a way for you to enjoy it
without eating it.
Well, whatever makes you happy.
Okay, then try turning
your head toward me.
You mean, like this?
Perfect!
(ahh...)
(breaths out softly)
[Nagisa] Um, how was that?
You were supposed to get a nice
whiff of my cinnamon roll.
Tomoya, don't just stare!
Say somthing!
If you keep looking at me
like that, I'm gonna cry.
Hey, Mei, I see you!
[Nagisa] (startled)
(giggles)
You can't trick me.
I knew this was your idea!
[Mei] You figured it out, huh?
Of course I did!
No matter how you look at it,
it was way too forced.
Operation Date is complete!
Mei, signing off!
(giggles)
Come back here, you brat!
[Nagisa] Okazaki!
That little punk!
I don't get it. Was Mei
blackmailing you or something?
Is that it?
Oh, no, it's nothing like that.
I just...
Did she say something to you?
She said...
you were selfconscious about
being a delinquent,
so you don't want to force
yourself on me.
And since I'm older than you
are, I should be taking the
initiative in our relationship.
Yeah, I figured it was
something like that.
[Nagisa] I was trying to follow
the plan that Mei wrote, but I
kept messing it up.
I'm sorry, this was
really dumb of me.
Yeah, I agree.
After all that, I wouldn't blame
you if you hated me. (huh)
I wouldn't hate you for all
the bad dates in the world.
Besides, even if her methods
were off, I think Mei was
right in a way.
You know, the day's not over
just yet. You have a sec?
Um, well, I guess I might a
little more time before dinner.
In that case, why don't you
and I take a little walk
to work up our appetite.
Where do you want to go?
A-anywhere's okay with me.
I mean, as long as I'm with you.
Glad to hear it.
Then, uh...
let's stay together forever.
[Tomoya] It's been a month
since I started dating Tomoyo.
It wasn't really planned
or anything.
It just sort of happened.
When I first met her,
I was always cutting class.
Even when I did come to school,
I was late.
But somehow, after getting to
know her better,
not only did I start coming
to school on time,
I started falling in love
with her as well.
Tomoya, you'll stay with me
from now on too, won't you?
Yeah, of course.
[Guy] You realize the
situation, don't you?
You understand what kind
of person she is.